The beginning
World War 1On June 1914, Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip assassinated Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary. This set off a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia, a series of ten demands that were made intentionally unacceptable, in an effort to provoke a war with Serbia. International alliances formed and within weeks, the major powers were at war.

Central Powers VS. the Allies
The conflict soon spread around the world. Germany, Austria-Hungary and the Ottoman Empire formed the so-called Central Powers against Great Britain, France, Russia, Italy and Japan formed the Allied Powers. Later, the United States joined the Allies in 1917 .

Unprecedented casualty rate
More than 70 million military personnel, including 60 million Europeans, were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history. Over 9 million combatants and 7 million civilians died as a result of this global war, a casualty rate exacerbated by the belligerents' technological and industrial sophistication. Armies used modern weaponry such as machine guns, tanks and chemical weapons. The tactical stalemate caused by gruelling trench warfare also added to the unprecedented number of victims. It was one of the deadliest conflicts in history, and paved the way for major political changes, including revolutions in many of the nations involved

The end of World War I and its consequences
By the end of the war on November 11th, 1918, the German Empire, Russian Empire, Austro-Hungarian Empire and the Ottoman Empire ceased to exist. National borders were redrawn, with several independent nations restored or created, and Germany's colonies were parceled out among the winners. During the Paris Peace Conference of 1919, the Big Four (Britain, France, the United States and Italy) imposed their terms in a series of treaties. The League of Nations was formed with the aim of preventing any repetition of such a conflict. This effort failed, and economic depression, renewed European nationalism, weakened member states, and the German feeling of humiliation contributed to the rise of Nazism. These conditions eventually contributed to World War II.